---
layout: post
title:  "The Seventh Seal (movie)"
date:   2023-12-06T14:25:52-05:00
author: Denim Skirt
categories: yr23
---
Hey little ones,
Last week I got sick, and in my four days of bedrest, I resolved to start watching movies again because movies are cool!! And here at Students for Literacy, we are literate in all forms of media, not just books. I watched two movies in my illness, one of them was wonderful and beautiful and the other one was so upsetting. I will tell you about one of them (can you guess which??): The Seventh Seal (1957).

So a medieval knight returns home after years fighting and pillaging in the Crusades, struggling to reckon with the enormity of the destruction brought by the Crusades, all in the name of spreading supposed salvation. When he lands ashore, he is greeted by the embodiment of death, who is there to take him. They make a deal to play a game of chess, and if the knight wins, he gets to live. Death disappears and reappears throughout the film to continue the game and remind the knight of the imminence of death. Meanwhile, everybody is dying of the plague and everything is so sad. There are also other plotlines with a group of actors and the knight has a friend and there was some guy trying to kill someone but then he got his eyes gouged out idk he wasn’t that important. 

I liked this one scene where the knight’s friend goes to a church and finds a priest painting a mural of the danse macabre (dancing skeletons as an allegory for the universality of death), and he’s like wtf this is such a bummer and the priest says that he’s doing the great service of reminding people of their death. They talk about how this ushers people into the arms of the clergy, and that the power of the church comes from the fear of death. This is pretty much the whole point of the movie.

There was also this crazy scene where a parade of monks dragging giant crosses (I think there’s a name for this but idk what it is) followed by flagellants (people whipping themselves) comes to town and they're all just screaming and moaning in agony as they struggle forward. The main monk man stops the procession just to yell at everybody in the town that the Black Death is coming for them. He is so mad and unhelpful and is just like what are you all doing standing around, death is looming, no one is safe, all while the flagellants are moaning in pain. Everybody in the town starts screaming and crying too because death is so scary or whatever and wow this scene was so upsetting it went on for so long. 

I have a vague memory of learning that it was monks that burned the dead bodies and took the task to go around warning people about the plague, but I was always thought they did it in a quiet respectful way, just like being nice guys dealing with the death for everybody out of godly love idk, but this movie has changed my views. I don’t know how historically accurate this movie was, but I will forever think of plague-era monks as just angry mean guys in robes who just show up to yell at everyone and be mean. Personally, I would rather not be warned of my coming death than get yelled at. That’s just me. It’s not cool to bring a parade of bad vibes into a joyous village, I don’t care if they thought they were being helpful. 
Lastly, I love how they did the death character. He’s so funny and such a trickster I love him!! The character design is sick af his outfit is so cool and he has no eyebrows. 

The movie was very 1957 in that it thought it was so cool and subversive for saying that organized religion is maybe kinda exploitative and there is no guarantee of an afterlife. And I’m sure it was cool and subversive at the time!! But that concept is not a super big deal anymore, at least not to us. I don’t believe in an afterlife, and frankly, that is a comforting thought. I think life is good enough to not warrant a desire for a post-life paradise. I do really admire modern religion sometimes though. Like the whole point seems to be faith and service and community, which I think have been slipping away from us for a long time. Maybe having something to believe in (spiritual or not) is a little bit integral to society idk. 

Whether or not you're religious, remember that you have at least one thing to have faith in this holiday season and that is Students for Literacy. Death is imminent but so is tomorrow’s meeting!!
