---
layout: post
title:  "Hercule Poirot's Christmas by Agatha Christie"
date:   2023-12-13T14:25:52-05:00
author: Playful Denim Skirt
categories: yr23
---

Ho ho ho merry christmas!! If you celebrate. To be honest I’m not really feeling the holiday cheer this year. Every Christmas we meet with these friends (2 other families) and it’s really awkward I actually hate it. I will definitely cry over something stupid that’s for sure.

In middle school I read every single Agatha Christie book where the detective is Hercule Poirot, Miss Marple, or some other one-off rando. The only detectives I did not like reading from were Tommy and Tuppence I do not like that pair! I just don’t like how they’re a couple. I mean even if it’s a consensual workplace relationship that just messes up the vibes. The only “romance” I want from a murder mystery is in the form of an affair that spirals into a murder, or the girl falls in love with the guy who turns out to be the murderer and so she gets with her quiet pining kinda boring man friend at the end instead. I mean jeez that second one happens a lot in these books. I just want the stuff that offers suspense! 

I would put this book in the TOP 3 best Agatha Christie books of all time. The other two would be Three Little Pigs and The Mirror Crack'd from Side to Side. (I am a firm Murder on the Orient Express and The Murder of Roger Ackroyd are overrated believer. And Then There Were None is good.) Which is very surprising! I mean a bunch of franchises will slap their most popular character onto some Christmas gimmick because capitalizing on holidays or whatever. And Agatha Christie was basically a franchise at this point with Hercule Poirot as her precious baby. Miss Marple got the same treatment, being thrown into the book Hallowe’en Party and it was not good. But this book IS GOOD. (They made a movie version of Hallowe’en Party (called A Haunting in Venice) this year by the way! Not sure why. It’s directed by this guy who loves casting himself as the main role in movies/plays that he directs. We are reading Hamlet in lit class and he directed the movie adaption we watched and he is indeed the titular Hamlet. He is Hercule Poirot in A Haunting in Venice. Yes, the book had Miss Marple as the detective. Yes, it got changed to Poirot for the movie, probably so he could cast himself as the main role. This is old lady erasure!) 

Anyway why is this book so good? It definitely isn’t the most well-thought out mystery of hers. That would be the aforementioned Three Little Pigs and The Mirror Crack'd from Side to Side. It also isn’t the most well-written prose-wise. That would be Endless Night or The Hollow. (This is all just IMO!) In fact it’s kind of really gaudy and a total fraud of a mystery book. But that’s why it's good! And why it works so well with Christmas. I mean Agatha tries to cram everything she knows into this book. There’s identity fraud and a sultry foreign South American lady and a gold mine in Africa and illegitimate children and a kitchen maid named Gladys and “the war”. (After reading all of her books I still don’t know if it’s WW1 or WW2 she is referring to anytime she writes “the war”. It’s definitely one of the two. I will never look into it. It’s never relevant to the plot.) Just joking! One of the things in this list is not in the book so you don’t know too much before reading. These are just hallmarks of any Agatha Christie book. That makes it seem bad though and it isn’t. 

Ok I have just read the plot summary of this book on Wikipedia as a refresher and the plot is pretty um weak compared to her other books. But I do partially blame whoever wrote the plot summary on Wikipedia. They phrased some of the information as questions for some reason, maybe to really get the reader thinking. I’m pretty sure the purpose of reading a wikipedia plot summary is so you don’t have to think. And weren’t we supposed to stop phrasing things in rhetorical questions if it isn’t meaningful in elementary school? I mean I just did it and did it in the first sentence of the previous paragraph and I do it literally all the time but I expected more from wikipedia. Seriously it felt like it was breaking the 4th wall. Why is Wikipedia suddenly asking me something? But anyway I remember this book so vividly as being so good there has to be something. Maybe the tactic really got to me and it was the Christmas joy imbuing from the pages into my soul. But I think the characters were also really interesting or something. I don’t really know. Read this book!
