---
layout: post
title:  "A Perfect Spy by John le Carré"
date:   2023-11-29T14:25:52-05:00
author: Denim Skirt
categories: yr23
---
I found this book in someone's driveway where they had a shelf full of books. A lot of biographies of U.S. presidents, spy novels, and cookbooks in like German or something. I guessed that spy books would be my favorite genre of the three just because I like mysteries. I don’t really understand the spy part of this book though. The main guy is named Magnus Pym and he was a British spy who defected (double crossed) by leaking British info to Czechoslovakia. Not even because he cared about the country of Czechoslovakia he just had a friend from there named Axel who he felt indebted to and was a father figure to him because his real father was a criminal. His other father replacement is his boss in the British intelligence named Jack Brotherhood. Apparently there wasn’t actually spy stuff for me to get though because this book isn’t a spy novel it’s a “character study”. Oh! I probably would never have read this book if I knew that beforehand. The only character studies I like are the personal life sections of famous people’s wikipedia pages. I did not sign up to read a 500 page “character study” of this made-up dude. Turned out to be ok though. 

I guess the title is called A Perfect Spy and Magnus is a perfect spy because no one knows who he truly is. His real dad dies and then he has a crisis and disappears suddenly, and so Jack Brotherhood (and the entire British and US intelligence for some reason) is freaking out trying to find him while slowly finding clues of his defecting. (So cool using defecting in this context this is the singular spy thing I learned from this book.) We find out his life story from the letters he writes to his son which make up some of the chapters, and the other chapters are from a bunch of other people's perspectives. Life story as in literally since he was conceived. Actually before he was conceived! His mom was the daughter of the pastor of the church that his dad was stealing money from. But then she dies and then Magnus gets about a bajillion stepmoms. His favorite mom was this German lady who he lowkey fell in love with but she then jumps off a building. 

About his mysteriousness and lack of identity, his wife says: “He was a new man everyday. He'd come home as one person, I'd try to match him. In the morning he'd be someone else.” Good quality for a double agent to have I guess but probably annoying to everyone around him. Everyone cheats on their wife/husband in this book but apparently it wasn’t really cheating from him because “He doesn't have affairs. He has lives. We’re on separate planets for him.” Great excuse, if any of you needed one for cheating! Just say you have different lives. 

Here is another dramatic quote: “Love is whatever you can still betray, he thought. Betrayal can only happen if you love.” And Magnus does love Jack Brotherhood, who he betrays the most. Jack and Axel are the people he loves the most in his life but they were also the ones who manipulated him to be the way he is from a young age, training him to be a spy for each of their respective sides. I DO like the dramaticness though because the ending of this book is very dramatic. (SPOILER: he commits suicide pretty dramatically.)

Another quote from the book:

“He's the Magnus who can't rest till he's touched the love in people, then can't rest till he's hacked his way out of it, the more drastically the better. The Magnus who does nothing cynically, nothing without conviction. Who sets events in motion in order to become their victim, which he calls decision, and ties himself into pointless relationships, which he calls loyalty. Then waits for the next event to get him out of the last one, which he calls destiny.”

I liked this quote when I first read it, but now I don’t know because what is a “pointless relationship”? Does it exist? Or is it an oxymoron. It sounds like that annoying advice my mom gives me to make the “right friends” in college and stuff. Like you’re lucky if I make any friends! I feel like you can’t “plan” relationships, they just happen. Sometimes with the wrong people, there are definitely bad relationships, like abuse/bullying/some people just suck. But pointlessness? I don’t know. All relationships will change you in some way, and make you you. 

Have you ever met someone like Magnus who you feel like you never truly get to know because they are always changing? Or do you feel like him sometimes? Um I’m just ending this with a question because I don’t know how to end this not abruptly. See you tomorrow!
