---
layout: post
title:  "The Stranger by Albert Camus"
date:   2023-09-27T14:25:52-05:00
author: Denim Skirt
categories: yr23
---
Like last year I read The Stranger by Albert Camus. Apparently it’s one of the first books to deal with absurdity and the meaning of life which I feel like is definitely not true because it’s not that old (published 1942). Basically, Albert Camus invented/coined the term nihilism or something. OMG I hated this book! Also I’m partly copying and pasting this from a goodreads review I wrote after I read it and it is so cringe I am definitely deleting the review. Also I kind of don’t think I was right. But also I did not think the message of the book was right either. 

Basically, it’s about how life is meaningless and we should treat it as such. Do not live like this people!!!! This is 5th grade boy mindset when they go through a "deep thinker" phase. This is when they start hating their older sisters the most. This book was kinda a drag and the main message unoriginal. Ok maybe it was original at the time. In that case, the author is the pioneer of being annoying.

This book is the guy in one of my classes last year who told me he had no friends in a deep lone wolf-serious guy voice when really I saw him talking to and joking with other guys all the time and it made me roll my eyes internally and then also feel sad because you clearly do have friends, and how would they feel if they heard that you don't address them as friends? It is OK to be not unique! You are not unique!! You are not "the stranger". You have 'friends' like everyone else, and maybe they aren't as cool as you want them to be but you aren't cool either. You have people you like and they like you, why can't you open up your arms and let them love you. That's why we're alive, to give people who we don't like at first a chance, to love them, and then realize we do like them after all. Not necessarily love but also befriend or make acquaintances with. Stop being picky with people or you're never gonna get it. Grow up. After you do this with a few people you realize no one is that bad. It is only yourself who is acting superior and pretentious and ruining your own relationships. You are the problem! And then you love everyone and you love life and you have purpose which is to love others. 

Also spoilers: the main character is this French guy who shoots an Arab guy and gets put in jail and that's the only reason why he starts thinking life is meaningless. Like maybe don’t kill people and get put in jail for the rest of your life. You made your own life meaningless! Also the author Albert Camus literally cheated on his wife so much (when she had cancer) that she killed herself. So good job dude your indifferent way of living is really working out for the people around you. As they say, the simplest argument to refute a moral nihilist is to kill them. They dgaf about living anyway! This is kinda bad but I’m sick and my head hurts so whatever. Someone argue that that’s not what nihilism is idgaf. Goodnight. 

