---
layout: post
title:  "The Past by Tessa Hadley"
date:   2023-11-15T14:25:52-05:00
author: Denim Skirt
categories: yr23
---

I read this book, The Past by Tessa Hadley in the Summer. When I was reading it I actually didn’t think too much of it, but thinking back, it was actually a perfect idyllic, placid, quiet Summer read. Summers are like that for me, they feel kind of boring and underwhelming at the time but then when school starts I realize how happy I was. I feel that way about this book, I miss the writing and the meandering plot with all of its rando elements like the pair of creepy children and their dead rotting dog corpse. I should read another book by this author!

I kept forgetting that the characters were British for some reason. Anyway it follows the Summer of a family of 4 middle aged siblings, 3 sisters and a brother. The brother brings his new foreign wife and teenage daughter, one sister brings her 2 young children, another brings her boyfriend’s college-aged stepson. The house they are staying in is their parents, and they have to decide what to do with it. That makes it seem like it is a setting that would encourage lots of drama, and it does but mostly doesn’t. This is not a dramatic book. It more embodies letting the light in and lingering and all that, no one yells and they all conceal their yearning but it’s definitely there. 

In order to not spoil the plot, which to be fair there isn’t a lot of, I will share about one of my favorite parts of the book which is the creepy children! They are so out of place compared to the rest of the book and are great comedic relief! Basically the 2 children of Fran, one of the sisters, are Ivy and Arthur, aged 9 and 6. They are wandering around the forest next to the house and find a crumbling cottage in it. They climb to the second floor, and in one of the bedrooms there is a dead rotting dog on the ground with flies all around it. It is a big dog too, like a goldendoodle or something. The children hear from the adults that one of the neighbors is missing their dog named Mitzi and are waiting for her to come back. However, the children don’t tell anyone about their secret. 

It escalates into the children kind of worshiping the dog, mostly initiated by Ivy, the older one. There are old pornographic magazines in the cottage, and the children cut out the women in them who Ivy calls the “dead women”. In order to appease the dead women Ivy has Arthur put all of his allowance around the dead dog as an offering to the women. Children are weird. But I think it’s kind of cool too and it doesn’t seem to have any negative effect on them, they give it up after a while. There isn’t anything wrong with them, they are normal children! I think all children are like this, even if they don’t worship a dog corpse, they are all able to move on from things and forget them so fast. And nothing is a big deal to them. Older people should learn from this it's kinda lit! Who wants to find a dead dog to do this. Just kidding. Just the chillaxing about stuff part. 

I also think it is interesting how they were so intent on not letting the adults know about the dog, even though the neighbors were concerned and missed their dog. That’s another thing about children, they like knowing things that others don’t. Perhaps to have some power compared to their parents. To feel sneaky and clever.

Who remembers silly bandz? Those silicone bracelets in the shapes of things? I was listening to a podcast where they were talking about the phenomena of silly bandz and they mentioned that according to this article, part of the appeal to children was maybe they feel a sort of power wearing a bracelet that they know the shape of, but others don’t.

“But to the kid who sits behind me in my geometry class, my Silly Band does not represent an elephant. It just looks like a crimpy, crinkly necklace. He does not have information that I have chosen to withhold from him. That control is comforting and creates a tool with which to play status games.” - [Peter Fenzel](https://www.overthinkingit.com/2010/07/06/silly-bandz/)

Not sure about that but children love a good secret! Ivy and Arthur would've been bored that Summer without that dog taking up space in their heads. Object permanence and children aside, this book was decently enjoyable. It was definitely beautifully written. Here's a quote about family that’s so good: 

“Both sisters managed to be offended. They sulked for five minutes and couldn't forgive each other, until they forgot about it and went back to their gossip, which circled eternally. All the siblings felt sometimes, as the days of their holiday passed, the sheer irritation and perplexity of family coexistence: how it fretted away the love and attachment which were nonetheless intense and enduring when they were apart. They knew one another so well, all too well, and yet they were continually surprised by the forgotten difficult twists and turns of one another's personalities, so familiar as soon as they appeared..."

So relatable and beautiful! Clap if you relate. And last thing, this queen “Nadine in NY Jones” on goodreads, for pointing out this:

“On the first afternoon, after Harriet and Alice and Fran had just arrived, "Fran was peeling potatoes in the kitchen sink." Okay, fine. But then they have dinner - and we are told exactly what they have: "pasta in a tomato sauce with olives and capers, sourdough bread, salad dressed with olive oil and salt." Where are the potatoes? Well maybe they were advance prep for the next day's meal? No, because breakfast was "coffee and orange juice and toast." Perhaps potato salad for lunch? No. Lunch was cucumbers and cheese and bread. The next supper was chicken with grapes and apples, made by Pilar. Dinner the following day was fish pie, and here Fran fixes more potatoes. What happened to the first potatoes?? Maybe it seems ludicrous for me to make notes of all this, but the missing potatoes really bugged me!”

Go off Nadine! You are so right. I would have never noticed that. It doesn’t bother me personally but so valid. This is why we need goodreads btw. This is how people should be using it.
