---
layout: post
title:  "The Holdovers (movie)"
date:   2024-02-08T14:25:52-05:00
author: Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---
Ok this is (again) not a book is a movie. The Holdovers came out in 2023, and it was recently nominated for Best Picture, Best FiIm Editing, Best Original Screenplay, Best Actor, and Best Supporting Actress for the 2024 Oscars. Two of the actors have won Golden Globes this year for this movie. JUST SAYING if this movie wins an Oscar, movies are in a sad state right now. Other movies that were nominated for multiple Oscars in similar categories as The Holdovers were Barbie, Oppenheimer, Poor Things, Killers of the Flower Moon, and Anatomy of a Fall. I haven't watched any of these movies but I hope that they are all better than The Holdovers because otherwise movies are in a REALLY bad state right now. I feel like whenever I write these I am always hating on something SORRY. But I will make it clear that this movie was not bad. It was just not 5 Oscar nominations good. I don’t really care about the Oscars because I generally don’t like movies, but I was appalled when I saw that this movie got nominated and felt like talking about it because I have no book to talk about right now. 

Here is the premise with copy-pasted parts of the wikipedia (no spoilers):

“In December 1970, Paul Hunham (Paul Giamatti) is an authoritarian classics professor at Barton Academy, a New England boarding school that he once attended on scholarship. His students and fellow teachers despise him for his brutally honest grading and stubborn personality. Paul is forced to supervise the five students left on campus during the holiday break, including one named Angus Tully (Dominic Sessa). Besides Angus, the 4 other boys leave after a few days. Also staying behind is cafeteria manager Mary Lamb, whose son attended Barton and joined the U.S. military to pay for college before being killed in the Vietnam War.” 

This movie was cute. The setting, a quaint all boys-boarding school, is cute. The music and acting is good. The plot is so boring. This movie felt like it was going from commercial to commercial, the ones with heartwarming Christmas music playing in the background and imperfect people with perfect flaws which we see the reason for and get to watch them seamlessly fix. Time doesn’t exist, the characters go from picture-esque montage to montage. There is a cute love interest for Angus that lasts for 5 minutes and then she never appears again. There is the cute-tsy little scene where Paul finds out Angus is taking antidepressants, the same kind he is taking, and so we the viewer discover they both have depression. Aw!! So cute. Well that’s the way the movie makes it seem. Paul holds the prescription bottles, one in each hand, smiles softly, and peaceful music plays. Ok, so they both have depression. Can you go further? No, it’s never addressed again. Everything in this book was so aesthetic. Where is the messiness, the ugliness, the real life? The disgusting-ness, the horror. 

According to google, this movie’s genre is comedy, comedy drama, and drama. The comedy is nowhere to be found. Which isn’t me trying to be mean, I genuinely don’t think they even tried to make it funny. The genre should be heartwarming Christmas movie. There is one part of the movie that made me laugh, it’s when Paul is mad at Angus for breaking a rule and chases him around the school, leading Angus to the under-construction gym where he attempts to do a backflip and breaks his arm. It was just very slapstick haha someone getting hurt funny. 

Maybe another time they tried to be funny/ironic is when the other boys get to leave school a few days into the holiday break on a helicopter owned by one of the boy’s dad’s. Angus doesn’t get to because his mom doesn’t pick up the phone to sign a permission slip allowing him to. I think I am reading too much into this but maybe since we would expect a movie called the Holdovers to be about the group of students that are being heldover, it’s “funny” that it’s instead one student and a mean teacher and the cook. But see that doesn’t work when I would rather have the movie be about the students. I think the student’s dynamic had more potential than the one focused on, between Angus and Paul. Besides Angus, the group of students consists of a “mean” guy and a “cool” guy and 2 underclassmen. There’s a lot of character building and good dialogue that shows how much they hate each other just for them to abruptly leave. 

Eventually Mary (the cook) is also dropped and it is only Angus and Paul. I think it’s fine that Mary eventually left, because it is made clear by that point that it is a white boy and his old white male mentor movie. (A lot of reviews called it similar to Dead Poets Society, The Breakfast Club, Ferris Bueller’s Day Off, Good Will Hunting, but a lot worse and very outdated. Idk cause I haven’t watched any of these.) But I do still wish that they could’ve explored Mary’s character more and talked more about her dead son and grief. This is unrelated but I couldn't take my eyes off of her BOMB NAILS. Perfect shape and length. I don’t care if it wasn’t exactly historically accurate. (Did they have such fine acrylic powder in 1970?) 

This is Dominic Sessa’s (who plays Angus) first movie, and I cannot tell if he is good at acting. He is a Timothee Chalamet type it seems. 

Despite the mostly good reviews, here are a few more critical opinions from critics:

Richard Brody for The New Yorker: "a pile of clichés… with such loving immediacy that it feels as if Payne were discovering them for himself.” (LOL this is so backhanded I love it). The "hermetically sealed, historically reduced drama" ignored the politically fraught setting of the 1970s.”

Justin Chang of the Los Angeles Times: "enveloping sense of time and place", but as a whole, "a flat, phony, painfully diagrammatic movie masquerading as a compassionate, humane one." 

And some people on letterboxd: 

“​Not even 70s nostalgia bait can make me sympathize with men” - sarachristinaa 

“While I really really really wanted to enjoy this, the first thirty minutes was an absolutely unbearable hodgepodge of “aw my life sucks because I go to a 60k tuition/year boarding school.” - eric (Something something The Secret History something something)

“As soon as they enter a Christmas party we wait for the beautiful girl to appear (when she did I wanted to throw my popcorn at the screen).” - Heretic (She was really pretty!)

“Run, don’t walk, to slash the family Buick’s tires before they take you to see this Christmas pudding of a film.” - Jasper Nathaniel

“what a flaccid lukewarm thing. caught in my teeth like taffy, only becoming more and more of a flavorless pastiche of itself as i tried to swallow it for two hours of wondering why i was being shown even a single one of the things on the screen. sentimentality is a canker. merry christmas.” - Jo!

5 OSCARS NOMINATIONS. 97% ROTTEN TOMATOES. Were people collectively drugged when they watched this movie? Books are great. Movies get so much more slack for being bad or boring because they are so much shorter. Back to books next time. 
