---
layout: post
title:  "My Year of Rest and Relaxation by Otessa Moshfegh"
date:   2024-05-01T14:25:52-05:00
author: Playful Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---

I “read” My Year of Rest and Relaxation but to tell the truth I actually listened to an audiobook version I found of it on youtube. Literally the day I finished it, the video and the channel it was uploaded on were deleted from Youtube, presumably for copyright. Real youtube audiobook truthers know this struggle. (Ok I don’t do this anymore. And it’s usually only with boring classics that have dead authors so I’m not really hurting them.) Anyway the youtube channel this audiobook was uploaded on was called “3x Audiobooks”. This was the sole video on it. It was in fact 3x the speed of the original audiobook from like audible or something to avoid copyright (which obv didn’t work). The thing I found out about a 3x speed audiobook is that the only remotely listenable youtube speeds to set it to are 0.5x or 0.75x, and neither of them are comfortable to listen to, 0.5 being too slow and 0.75 too fast. There were a few comments on the video, and one of them, which I wish I screenshotted, read something along the lines of: “0.5 speed is the perfect speed to listen to this, the droning and groggy speed of talk matches what’s going on in the narrator's mind”. It was a beautifully worded comment that I am unable to regurgitate accurately from memory, but regardless, I disagree. I think 0.75 is the superior speed. First of all, this book isn’t pleasant or enjoyable, so listening to it faster means being done with it sooner. Also, it’s just funny listening to all the horrible things the narrator is thinking and the horrible things happening to her in a super fast monotone voice. Narrator I guess as in the narrator of the audiobook and also the narrator of the book because it is first-person from the protagonist. Anyway I do imagine that the voice of the protagonist’s internal monologue would be this rushed and untethered. 

This book features an unnamed protagonist who’s parents, who she didn’t really like, die. They are WASPs and she gets their money so she can quit her job as an art gallery front desk person in New York City. (Marnie Michaels who?) She is really depressed from her parents’ deaths, among other reasons, and has 1 “friend” who she is really mean to. She finds this bootleg therapist to prescribe her copious amounts of drugs so she can be asleep most of the time and not have to live life. That’s basically it, and to reiterate, the protagonist is horrible. Her internal monologue when she’s with her friend is the worse, she basically spends the whole time thinking that her friend must be so jealous of her because she is, in her own words, beautiful and blonde and rich, which is an insane thing to focus on like you have bigger fish to fry right now lady. I have no idea why her friend sticks around. The protagonist basically hates her and tells her to leave whenever she comes over, but also secretly loves to have someone care about her and most of all someone to talk down to in her head and project all her insecurities on. (Marnie has her fair share of negative qualities, but I don’t think she is like the narrator of this book in this way.) 

Quote: “I took a Polaroid of her one night and stuck it into the frame of the mirror in the living room. Reva thought it was a loving gesture, but the photo was really meant as a reminder of how little I enjoyed her company if I felt like calling her later while I was under the influence.” 

Anyway I guess this book is relatable in the sense that life is exhausting and it is more bearable when there is something blocking any thoughts from forming, whether that be sleep or consuming 4 types of media simultaneously. This book was set in 2000/2001, so I am certain if this book took place today, the character wouldn’t have to rely on sleep drugs, she could just watch Selling Sunset while scrolling tiktok or something. The message of the book is obviously that you shouldn't live this way, and the year it takes place should give you a hint about how this book ends and what shakes the narrator out of it. I read one other Ottessa Moshfegh book last year, which was Eileen. I think Eileen was more well written while this book was more funny/relatable, but they honestly have a lot of similar elements. Otessa Moshfegh is definitely a talented writer, both of these books were uncomfortable to read in a distinct way. 

Some quotes: 
“Sleep felt productive. Something was getting sorted out. I knew in my heart—this was, perhaps, the only thing my heart knew back then—that when I'd slept enough, I'd be okay. I'd be renewed, reborn. I would be a whole new person, every one of my cells regenerated enough times that the old cells were just distant, foggy memories. My past life would be but a dream, and I could start over without regrets, bolstered by the bliss and serenity that I would have accumulated in my year of rest and relaxation.” 

“This was how I knew the sleep was having an effect: I was growing less and less attached to life. If I kept going, I thought, I'd disappear completely, then reappear in some new form. This was my hope. This was the dream.”

“If, when I woke up in June, life still wasn't worth the trouble, I would end it. I would jump. This was the deal I made.” 

Well she doesn’t, which is good. Do not jump! 

