---
layout: post
title:  "Helter Skelter by Vincent Bugliosi & Curt Gentry"
date:   2024-12-04T14:25:52-05:00
author: Youthful Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---

Just as everybody warned, it’s kind of hard after high school. Your friends live further away. Things get further apart. This time last year, all of the locations I’d visit on a given day were within a few blocks of each other. I walked 15 minutes to school, where my best friends sat waiting for me. Then another 15 minutes to Peet’s coffee afterschool and I’d see my other best friend. Then she and I’d walk up and down the street and have lunch and climb down to the creek and back up to the park to swing on the swings and then a final 30 minute walk back home. 

I drive now. A dented 2015 KIA Soul EV that once stopped moving on the highway and got lightly nudged by a semi truck. Google maps reported a lane closure but whatever the car got fixed and it’s normal now. I drive 10 minutes to school, 10 minutes to dog walk, 10 minutes to Philz coffee, and at none of these locations are my best friends waiting for me. They currently live between 45 minutes (Santa Cruz) and 45 hours (Boston) away. I spend my weekends at least an hour away from home in someone else’s van, and God when did everything get so far apart. That seems like a reasonable idea—life getting bigger as you get older. But the fullness of it doesn’t always catch up to the bigness, and at a certain point it’s all distance and no substance. I’m being dramatic. There’s plenty of substance. But it’s organized differently and harder to grasp and yeah this is hard. Obviously. Obviously growing up is hard. Everybody already knows that. But still.

I spent my last summer before adulthood trying to get through Helter Skelter by Curt Gentry and Vincent Bugliosi. I found it in a pile of books that the school library was going to throw away, and the inside cover had a blurb saying “this story will scare the hell out of you!!!” or something like that, so I took it home. It sat patiently in the corner of my room before I picked it up to thematically supplement this cult class I was taking over the summer. It was just english 1a but the professor made it cult theme and I frankly learned nothing about english, but a great deal about cults. We read Amanda Montell’s Cultish and it was fantastic I really recommend it. Cultish is a quippy journalistic breakdown of cults, culty organizations, and the linguistics of manipulation. Smart, funny, and friendly! Helter Skelter is none of those things. 

Instead, this book is the official unofficial full account of the investigation of the Manson murders. Pretty much this crazy cult went and brutally murdered a group of five that included Sharon Tate (Roman Polanski’s wife), Abigail Folger (the heiress to the Folger Coffee fortune), and some very famous men’s hair stylist. And there were a couple more murders by the cult, but no one knew that they were connected initially and those people weren’t famous anyway so nobody gaf. So in 502 pages, Bugliosi recounts every little detail of the investigation and following trials, and it is so so tedious. I got about half way through, just past the photo section in the middle. 

The book would be perfect if it ended there because despite the tedium, it is truly so funny. Like in explaining the initial investigation, which didn’t include Bugliosi yet, he keeps jumping out of the story to exclaim “yet another critical mistake!!!!” and “if only they hadn’t missed this obvious clue!!”(not direct quotes but please believe that he really wrote it just like that) with the implication that all of this would’ve gotten sorted out way sooner had he gotten involved earlier. Like every other page. He makes everyone look so stupid, which they kind of were, but that’s still mean, and that’s why I like him. 

When Bugliosi enters the story, he introduces himself as the best most beloved district attorney ever, going through his portfolio of super impressive high-profile work, and stressing how much everyone begged and pleaded to have him on the case. And then there are several full pages devoted to how hard he worked and how he took on more work than anyone else because he’s just such a hard worker everybody else is just so imcompetent. Someone called him a narcissist in a reddit thread, and like yeah kinda, but that redditor was also talking about all of this being a coverup involving the CIA so idk there might be more to the story.

Best of all, Bugliosi keeps bringing up Charles Manson’s height just to drag him at every possible opportunity. Charles was the white supremacist psycho charismatic leader of the cult who masterminded the murders, and every time Bugliosi mentions the psychological power Manson had over his followers, he throws in the fact that Manson is 5 '2'’. Imagine making and leading this enormously prolific cult that is undyingly devoted to you and all anyone can talk about is your height. Prejudice is so cruel. Bugliosi is so devastated that a short king can slay so much poon. It is kinda crazy that Manson is neck deep in snatch over the entire course of events in the book. This is the power of language, as explained in Cultish. This is also why I can’t trust good public speakers.

In that cult class, I wrote an essay about social decay and loneliness being the main reason that people are drawn into manipulative culty groups. At the time, all of my friends were still home. That is no longer the case. The other night, I tried very genuinely to convince the owner of the aforementioned van to go to the Church of Scientology with me as a date, so maybe that means something. Instead we just talked and smoked, so that might mean something too. Next time you feel an urge to join a cult, instead spark up a doob and spend time with someone you like. Though actually I think that is how Manson got some of his underlings. So maybe also keep them at a distance. But also be vulnerable. But not too much. Good luck everyone.
