---
layout: post
title:  "Y/N by Esther Yi"
date:   2024-11-20T14:25:52-05:00
author: Playful Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---

Y/N by Esther Yi is a book about a korean american woman (in her mid/late 20s?) living in Berlin who becomes obsessed with Moon, the youngest member of a kpop boy group. She starts writing self-insert fanfiction for him, hence the book’s title, but alas this book is not about kpop or fandom culture or fanfiction or being asian american in a different country at all. I think it is about loneliness and loving someone you don’t know. We’ve all done it, imagining our life with a stranger we’ve known for a few minutes. This is different from a crush because you literally know nothing about the person to even determine if you like them or not. And it can be platonic. (Yes I am so lonely that I imagine being friends with people. Whatever.) It can turn into a crush, but more often than that as you find out more about the person and how they are of course different from the version you created in your head you actually like them less. There is a freedom in  knowing that you will never have a relationship with this person. This is the relationship the protagonist has with Moon before she becomes determined to meet him. She doesn’t see him in a perfect light, in fact she feels she is the only one who can love him BECAUSE she understand his flaws. 

All of the group’s song lyrics are like weird existential questions and their stage names are different planets. If there isn’t already I'm sure there will be a kpop group whose concept is this academia/philosophy nonsense. There is another livestream in the book that is even weirder, Moon is with another member of the group who acts as a vessel for the fans in the comments to talk and interact with Moon. They hug and kiss and one of them eats bits of the other’s cuticles. My bitches with pica get it. Yeah this book is weird I guess the only way I know how to categorize it at all is magical realism, even though all the books I have read in this realm don't have anything in common. As one of my fave “magical realism” authors Helen Oyeyemi says on her goodreads profile: “Can’t fiction sometimes get extra fictional without being called such names…?” This book just has so many random things going on at all times but I read it so fast despite of it. Some woman inspects the protagonist's shoe and claims she worked at the factory that produced it and so the protagonist hops on her motorcycle and they go on a journey to find Moon so the narrator can show him how she is the only one can love him. And the protagonist dyes her hair to look like Moon and roleplays as him at a meet and greet where her ex-boyfriend's ex-girlfriend roleplays as her fan. And they find a man at an amusement park who claims to be made of the leftover scraps that the universe had after it made Moon. And this is just the real storyline, there is the other storyline which is the fanfiction she is writing. What the hell, sure. At the end of course Moon is so grateful and happy that she found him and they live happily ever after. JUST JOKING. SNAP OUT OF IT AND GET REAL BITCH. 

“You’re trembling like a foal. Has no one touched you in a while? Don’t be embarrassed. Being practiced at love is exactly what ruins it.”

I don’t remember the context of this quote or who said it but it wasn’t about sex or anything like that. But it carries the sentiment that the appealing part of love is the unexpectedness, the knowledge that anything could happen and you might fuck it up somehow. No one ever chooses the safe option when it comes to love. The good girl always picks the bad boy and people mess up their stable relationships and cheat because it is naughty and fun. Challengers was hot because they are all cheating on and betraying each other, not because it’s a threesome. Polyamory seems so impossible, because how can you even pretend that there is an equalness. I think romantic relationships are always a competition with each other and other people. And are always on the brink of falling apart/starting because neither person can actually admit that they like the other and are in a relationship all. Well hot romantic relationships I mean. Which is problematic, which is why I am not seeking a romantic relationship. Also why I could never go on a dating app because the prerequisite is that everyone on there is looking for some type of relationship, and that breaks it for me. But I do need friendship which unlike romance, is a bond that is not dependent on the tension between love and disdain and instead is the best thing in the world. Um I miss my friends so much. In fact I am getting emotional right now watching a certain friend’s little canva pointer resizing the text boxes. 

Unfortunately, I hold myself and others to an impossible standard when it comes to being deserving of good company. As in I don't think I am good company or deserving of it. The people who I do think are good company are too cool to hang out with me and everyone else I have an intense hatred for based on one thing they say that I interpret as a moral failing EVEN THOUGH I often will be talking to someone and actively HATE the words that are coming out of my mouth because that is not truly me! THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO KNOW ME ALREADY AND THEY ARE NOT HERE AND IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO MAKE OTHER PEOPLE GET. (Not because I am particularly complex. But because it is so hard to really know someone, anyone. Because everyone is really complex. Including me.) So this is obviously not helping at making me new friends. 

“Despite everything I've been through, I still think that my loneliness is part of some character-building prologue to the joy of togetherness that inevitably awaits me,' she said. 'Isn't that funny?”

“I could love only that which made me secretive, combative, severe, a moral disappointment to myself, and an obstruction to others.”

“As a human being who cannot live without love, I know full well that I have exhausted my options on this disappointing planet. The question is no longer 'Who are the people who will accept my unusual love?' but rather 'How do I make my love more unusual and more unacceptable.”

“I wasn’t sure how to navigate a space filled with strangers who knew I loved what they loved. It was like going to the sauna, except our naked bodies were identical, which made the embarrassment recursive and pointless.”

Everyone is so scared of being embarrassed or too different or too the same, but the rules of what is embarrassing and different and the same changes so fast. Everyone is the same person and that in itself is embarrassing. Everything is so easily embarrassing. I'm not smart enough for this but this is part of the reason why Donald Trump won the election. I am part of the problem. Well not Trump winning. But I am contributing to this culture because I am easily embarassed and GAF way too much. Everyone needs to start IDGAFing immediately. 
