---
layout: post
title:  "All wizards have beard (creative writing piece)"
date:   2024-04-25T14:25:52-05:00
author: Youthful Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---

All wizards have beards. Even bad ones. Even bad wizards have beards and even bad beards are had by wizards and even bad beards are had by bad wizards, but only in especially dire cases. Roasalinda is one such case. Her beard was bought from a dollar store on its november 1st sale (as with most other female wizards, rosalina had struggled to grow and maintain her own). But! All wizards have bears, even bad ones. So Rosalinda ended up in her neighborhood dollar store on the day in America when beard prices were at their lowest, according to Rosalinda’s calculations. These calculations relied on addition and division and also some polynomial division, all of which Rosalinda was particularly talented at. They also relied on the assumption that every year, all retailers across the United States scrambled to unload their inevitable surplus of synthetic beards the day after halloween in order to anticipate the sudden drop in demand.. fish fish fish fish. ok, Rosalinda failed to expect that some retailers, partiucalrly dollar store owners, who are particularly astute in ways of finançe, prepared themselves, every year, for foolish little wizard girls like her who tried to take advantage of small businesses through broad economic assumptions. Rosalinda’s beard was once blue but is now stained orange brown, presumably form all the people that had tried it on in the story before her. The beard cost her $2.50 at the DOLLAR STORE where she bought it. Stupid!! Rosalinda’s poor use of economic principles has also led her to become a bad wizard, not just a stupid girl. Double threat. A deep understanding of economics is vital for wizards because wizards love money and have to collect gold dubloons in order to make their magic spells and also just to be happy with themselves. A large stack of dubloons indicates a successful wizard because more dubloons  = more spells, and that is a wizard’s whole thing. Rosilnda’s stack of dubloons is pathetic and her beard is ugly and she is all together feeling like a bad wizard (she is one).
“What if i’m just bad at being a wizard,” said Rosalinda
“It’d be fine if you weren’t wizard,”
“No but am I a bad wizard?”
“I mean,” clark chattered his teeth together like two sets of piano keys stacked and grinding against each other, “you’re not great at being a wizard,”
“I could be a banker, maybe,”
“Nooo………,”
“I’m going to the museum rn, you can’t come with me,”
Clark let out a sigh of relief that nearly toppled Rosalinda over.
“Ok, whatever, relax dude. I’m going now, srsly don’t follow me,”
Clark obviously did not want to follow her because why would he want that. Rosalinda, being stupid, had expected him to follow her to the museum as a romantic gesture, but it’s whatever. 
What we should understand about Rosalinda right now is that she probably has a stomach ache that is making it really hard to grasp economic concepts and also social cues. When she gets to the ticket counter at the museum, the Museum Ambassador of the Front Desk diplomatically explained that the entrance fee had been raised to cover the losses they suffered from museum thieves. 
“Waaaah!!!!” Rosalinda says to the Museum Ambassador, and the Museum Ambassador nods at her sympathetically and pats her hand. A ghost enter from the right.
“Ooogaboogaooba,” the ghost says in a wobbly ghost-type voice. Rosalinda quiets herself and turns to the ghost.
“You are a ghost?” she phrases her statement like a question just in case it wasn’t actually a ghost and she didn’t want to embarrass herself with such a declarative statement. A question shows humility, and ghosts like that. But do non-ghosts?
“Yes, oobaloogaboogaboo,” the ghost answers (thank god), “I have come to give you some wizarding advice, because I, too, used to be a bad wizard, and now I am dead,”
“I would love to hear please ma’am. Sorry if you heard me wailing earlier btw,”
“It’s chill dw ab it. My first piece of advice is that an increase in price leads to an increase in supply.”
Rosalinda sullenly traces the outline of the two dubloons in her packet—the last two dubloons she owns on this earth. “Yeah ok thanks ig,” she says.
“My second piece of advice is that you have to spend money to make money. My third piece of advice that you must always, under all circumstances, deeply and truly hate men. This is the life blood of all good magic. Magic fueled in any other way is actually evil. I have to go now,” the ghost turns to leave.
“No wait,” the ghost stops and turns back around. “Your advice is incredible. Don’t leave.”
“Why shoudln’t I?”
“B-becuase, I love you,”  Rosalinda pulled out of deep inside of her. The ghost took Rosalinda in her big soft ghost arms and they kissed romantically. It was really nice for both of them. They had crazy wacko incredible sex after that. Right in front of the Museum Ambassador! He continues to nod sympathetically. 
After that, Rosalinda spends her last two gold dubloons on tickets into the museums for herself and for the ghost. They rob the museum of all its pretty jewelery and whatever they think they can use for future ghostly gay sex. 
In the alley out back, they kiss passionately again. When they pull apart, Rosalinda asks the ghost, “Just out of curiosity, how old are you? When were you born?”
“Funny question; I am 24 years old and was born in the year 1999. Im also a film major now and also a law school dropout/rockclimber btw if you even care,”
Rosalinda clutches at her ugly plastic beard. “Oh, brother!”
