---
layout: post
title:  "Famous Long Ago: My Life and Hard Times with Liberation News Service by Raymond Mungo"
date:   2024-01-25T14:25:52-05:00
author: Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---

So I’m reading this book called Famous Long Ago: My Life and Hard Times with Liberation News Service by Raymond Mungo (actually there is no colon in the title but I think it’s needed). I found it at the De Anza flea, and I was prepared to pay up to $3 for it but the guy said I can just take it so I did! The book was self-published by Mungo in 1970 and there are 5 different fonts in use on the cover. 

It’s a kind-of memoir thing detailing the author’s experiences in being a student editor in the late 60s, so a lot of burning draft cards, willful unemployment, and chemical stimulants. The guy started the Liberation News Service (LNS) with other Radical Young People after dropping out of college. They all move into a house together in DC, living in squalor, and sending out a newspaper with an astoundingly high readership. Mungo writes a lot about the state of the Movement as the various branches of the anti establishment scene oppose one another and the LNS descends into disorganized factions (AP gov moment iykyk). 

The paradox of organizing anti establishment organizations
LNS consists of a bunch of people with various newspaper-related skills (writing, photography, printing, reporting, etc.) living in a decrepit house together bound only by shared ideals (though even those start to go eventually) producing a newspaper for which they may or may not receive a salary depending on if readers want to pay the optional subscription fee. Their meetings happen only if people happen to want to show up. Decisions are made through votes, but Mungo is apprehensive even at that: why should they operate by the same systems as the establishment that they so oppose? When the DC branch of LNS moves to NYC to join the New York branch, Mungo is troubled by how organized and established it is. But if systemic organization and increased scale is the antithesis of the underground, how do you enact effective change? Because that’s the point, isn’t it? This is the revolution! We’re trying to turn America on its head and start anew! That’s what the LNS writes about? So shouldn’t scale and efficiency be the goal? No, not according to Mungo. The New York branch is efficient, militant, brutalist. They write about serious stuff in serious ways, demanding ideological purity, which is really hard when half of your staff are communists and the other half are anarchists. LNS’s DC branch used to print silly stuff about poetry and youth culture alongside political and philosophical calls to action. It was supposed to be fun. And I don’t know, is revolution supposed to be fun? I think the main difference between Mungo/the original DC office’s school of thought and that of the NYC office is that the NYC was focused on making practical strives toward the future they want, while the DC office was living/printing an anti establishment ideology that only exists within the context of their current condition/the state of the country. They didn’t care about the future, only living correctly in the present. Mungo said his main takeaway from his life and hard times with the Liberation News Service is that you can not have any organization or system of government or society bound solely by ideology. I think I agree.

Privilege and Thoreau 
As brilliant and piercing as Mungo’s commentary was, there was a very Thoreau-style paragraph about abandoning material possessions and quitting your job that reeked of middle class “I can always crash at my parents’ house if this revolutionary thing doesn’t work out” privilege. Like almost all of these kids either graduated from or dropped out of fancy private schools, and Mungo goes on a whole tirade saying people should quit all unnecessary jobs and stop buying things. Wdym unnecessary jobs!! Wdym willful unemployment!! You are a 22 year old white man with no family to support or bodily ailment to treat or prejudice against you that aims to threaten your very existence in society. Of course it is feasible for you to couch surf and get arrested willy nilly and then move to a commune in Vermont when you get tired of the bad vibes of the city. Then again, he does address some of this privilege and writes about the differences between his lifestyle and that of others across the country (there’s a fun cross-country road trip toward the end of the book) with a sober and knowing awareness, so it’s okay I guess. There’s also a very interesting bit about the aftermath of MLK’s assassination, the militancy of the proceeding civil rights movement, and white liberalism. 

This is a good book. There's a lot of other stuff going on in it. 
