---
layout: post
title:  "Blind Owl by Sadeq Hedayat"
date:   2024-02-28T14:25:52-05:00
author: Youthful Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---

I’m back again with another excruciating read: Sadeq Hedayat’s Blind Owl. The back of the book reads: “A new English translation of one of the most important, controversial Iranian novels of the twentieth century,”. I was so pumped and ready to find out what controversies lay between these pages but it’s literally just a guy being depressed and on opium. 

Much like The Seventh Seal, I think this was probably only controversial and important because they didn’t have tumblr or radiohead yet (it was published in 1936). I looked up why it was controversial and the internet said it caused a lot of teenage suicides so yikes!! Read at your own risk guys it's okay not to be okay ily. He also renounces God a lot and gets randomly really sexual 

I did really enjoy reading this book, but it was so hard to take seriously when every other line was him complaining about the shadows in his heart and how death was approaching and how nobody Gets It because regular people are too stupid to comprehend the depths of his sorrows. This is taking me back to my middle school poetry days (</3)

So it starts with him seeing a vision of an old guy in a turban sitting under a cypress tree with a beautiful lady next to him. There is a small stream between them and some other details that come back at different times (this book has maybe 1 billion symbols and motifs). The guy keeps painting that same scene on pencases and he doesn’t know why. He is haunted by the woman and her eyes, which are at the same time beckoning and detached and judgemental and kind and beautiful and evil and every other emotion that a 20 year old depressed man can project onto some woman he doesn’t know. Eventually, she comes to his house, lays down in his bed, and dies. Oh no! And then this guy chops up her body into pieces to put in a suitcase so he can bury her somewhere. It gets a little gross at this point. But then the suitcase is too heavy to carry so an old man appears with a coffin carrying wagon to take the guy to a good burial ground. He takes him to an ancient city and digs a hole for him. Inside the hole is an old vase that the old man keeps for himself as payment. The suitcase fits perfectly in the hole where the vase was, and then the old man goes away somewhere. It is during this traveling and burying sequence that you start to realize the narrator is going crazy and maybe not telling things as they truly are. Everything is very mystical and eerie and he keeps repeating certain phrases as if he forgot he already used them. Also! The vase has the same painting of the old guy and beautiful lady that the narrator had been painting on pen cases! 

Other stuff happens for a while and then the guy goes home and anxiously awaits the police because he thinks he’s going to get arrested for murdering the girl. In his restlessness, he decides he needs to tell his whole story to his shadow on the wall (it looks like an owl, hence the title), so the second half of the book is all him speaking directly to the reader, explaining his torments and the history of his life. This part reveals that everything in the first half was some kind of vision/hallucination/big metaphor for his life. Apparently he was just really sad that his wife wouldn’t sleep with him. SPOILER: they freak in the sheets at the very end and then he kills her lol. I honestly do really feel for this guy, like so much of what he says is just symptoms of mental illness. And like go off queen real af but it is sucky thinking about how people have always had these same problems, but without the resources we have now. He keeps saying that nobody else gets it but like I get it!! And you, my reader, get it. And like a lot of people get it, but Sadeq was so isolated and in such a terrible state that he couldn’t fathom that anybody else would understand. He committed suicide in 1951, so I guess it didn’t really get better. Ok bummer wow. 

Anyway let’s look at some quotes:

“In life there are wounds that, like termites, slowly bore into and eat away at the isolated soul. You can’t tell anyone about these pains. People think of them as strange and unnatural, and if you try to talk or write about them, they fall back on their same worn beliefs and dismiss them with a mocking smile. That’s because man has not yet found any solution, any drug that can cure them.” That’s how the book starts. Get this man some lexapro!!!!

“They were all just mouths with intestines hanging from them, at the end of which dangled their genitals.” cray

“A few times I whispered to myself: ‘Death…death…where are you?’ This soothed me and my eyes closed.”

“I enjoyed sitting in the darkness—darkness, this viscous element that oozes through everything, everywhere—I was used to it.” Me when I don’t want to turn on the big light in my room.

Sadeq Hedayat was the first emo so let’s all say thank you. (this book was actually fantastically written and rlly cool to read btw I def recommend ignore everything i said before)
