---
layout: post
title:  "Circe by Madeline Miller"
date:   2024-04-024T14:25:52-05:00
author: Youthful Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---
Hi guys!! As you may remember, the newsletter did not come out last week, disrupting all SFLer’s lives irrevocably.  The issue was that I read a book that made me too sad for two days, too sad to even write our dear newsletter as I’d volunteered to do. I’m so sorry to all parties impacted. The book was Giovanni’s Room, and I will not be talking about it in this. But I def recommend it is now one of my top books ever. Queer tragedy and cigarettes in Paris etc. Kind of a Great Gatsby vibe. Anyway!!
For the purposes of loving and healing, here is some Mary Oliver:

Do you love this world?
Do you cherish your humble and silky life?
Do you adore the green grass, with its terror beneath?

Do you also hurry, half-dressed and barefoot, into the garden,
and softly,
and exclaiming of their dearness,
fill your arms with the white and pink flowers,

with their honeyed heaviness, their lush trembling,
their eagerness
to be wild and perfect for a moment, before they are
nothing, forever?

-excerpt from Peonies

and another one:

On cold evenings
my grandmother,
with ownership of half her mind-
the other half having flown back to Bohemia-
spread newspapers over the porch floor
so, she said, the garden ants could crawl beneath,
as under a blanket, and keep warm,
and what shall I wish for, for myself,
but, being so struck by the lightning of years,
to be like her with what is left, that loving.

-In Praise of Craziness, of a Certain Kind

Mary Oliver writes about grief and surviving it. Sometimes this survival takes the form of love, but not always. Always, she writes about nature, about the broad world outside our skin, and its willingness to embrace and forgive. Her poems typically have a real solitary vibe, but in a peaceful, ruminating, Circe by Madeline Miller way, not in a sad lame Sadeq Hedayat (remember that newsletter??) way. I guess that makes them more intimate, and a little kinder. They’re not instructions or sermons, just soft reassurance. Thanks Mary ilysm.
Do you guys remember Circe? It was written by the same woman as Song of Achilles, but it’s way better imo. I read it in like 2020 or 2021 and totally forgot about it, but I was talking to a friend recently who read it around the same time. She said that it was really impactful because of how similar it was to what she (we) was going through at the time: growing up/coming of age in solitude. I never put it together, but she is so right, that is why that book hit so hard. It was freaking crazy to spend some of the most pivotal years in our social development totally alone. Sometimes I’m grateful. Like maybe everybody should be locked up from 8th to 9th grade to develop in solitude and emerge nicely prepared for 10th grade as a beautiful butterfly. There are of course the gaps in learning and brain development to reckon with, but whatever dude. I looked hella stupid in those years, and I’m glad nobody had the chance to bully me out of it. I was able to continue carrying my stupid style swag with comfort and ease to the present day. Hurray for coming to know yourself in isolation. Dye your hair guys I’m serious it’s good for you. 


