---
layout: post
title:  "Anna Karenina by Leo Tolstoy"
date:   2024-01-10T14:25:52-05:00
author: Playful Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---

Anna Karenina CLEARS Sense & Sensibility. Not that it makes any sense to be comparing them. But I am. I think Anna Karenina is what I thought Sense & Sensibility would be like. Why are the 2 main characters in S&S so mean? They go to someone’s house for dinner, and their hostess has a 30 year old daughter who is unmarried and doesn’t have children. She is also illiterate, because the family is poor and it was normal for girls to be uneducated. What do the Sense & Sensibility sisters do? Obviously shun her from all conversation and actively try to avoid her. Because they are young and fertile, 16 and 18, and she is OLD AND HAGGARD. The famously elderly age of 30 years old. And the sisters know how to read even though they are also poor because their mother taught them. So why would they deign to talk to this old and ugly AND stupid woman. This is when I stopped reading the book. I still have the copy of s&s and I should check if I got this right because it has been 1 and a half years since I read it and I am probably exaggerating or forgetting some minor details but I really do not want to open the book again! 

Anna Karenina on the other hand is so kind. Even in one of the first scenes we meet her and she is gaslighting her sister-in-law to stay with her cheating husband (Anna’s brother) you can tell she has a good heart. Ok you have to read it to get it. And I know it’s always women pitting other women against each other I’m SORRY. But in my defense they are all fictional characters and in s&s they are barely characters at all. Flat as cardboard cutouts I cannot remember a single defining personality trait of either sister. I don’t remember their names and they have merged into 1 person. In my head it’s Anna compared with the Frankenstein of the 2 s&s sisters so I really am pitting 2 queens against each other. When I should be maximizing their joint slay. 

I just remembered that there was a third sister in s&s. Not sure why she existed because she was not looking for a husband, so that means she was probably like 12. You have a few more years girl. The men were also all the same person. Why bother picking between Brandon and Willoughby when it’s the difference between marrying a doorknob or a brick? Also how are a guy named BRANDON and a guy named Willoughby even alive in the same century? At least I remembered their names. 

Anna Karenina is so much more everything and more romantic, even though I’m pretty sure all the love is in the form of extramarital affairs. Even if I did think that Anna Kareina was hard to read or boring (I do not) it would at least have the excuse of being a translation. S&S IS hard to read and boring and it's the original version. (For me, I read it in English. Fun fact: it’s the language you’re reading this in!) The translation of AK I’m reading is not the most popular one either, it’s by Constance Garnett. Constance Garnett was one of the first Russian to English translators and she has a lot of respect from historians and readers for translating so many books and being a solo woman doing it in that time period. She translated books by Tolstoy, Gogol, Dostoyevsky, and Chekhov, to name a few. Leo Tolstoy was alive when she translated for him and he personally approved of her translations. But some people think her translations are outdated, dry, and not resemblant of Tolstoy’s original words. Of course Vladimir Nabokov thought her translations were bad. He seems annoying. I think she’s great. I also don’t know Russian and haven’t read from other translators and so have no say in this. Overall people seem to be very heated and have one translator who they think is best. I am constant on Constance! 

[This article](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2005/11/07/the-translation-wars) (from 2005) has more about Russian to English translations even though it’s mean to Constance and not that well written (prob just me, I didn’t like the metaphor “making the face of a child who has inadvertently eaten a Brussels sprout” for some reason like that is so boring). The writer is interviewing the translators of another translation of Anna Karenina so of course he is biased against Constance. One of the translators he is interviewing doesn't even know Russian? Explain how that works. And this is all such a big deal that there was a play written about it and the character of Constance Garnett was really annoying and played by young MERYL STREEP. This is Constance Garnett’s [wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constance_Garnett). Her resume is crazyyy it’s so long. 

Also Anna Karenina has so many banger quotes. The first sentence of the book is: “Happy families are all alike, every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.” I mean I’m not sure if this quote is true or if Leo Tolstoy is huffing copium but either way this rocks as an opener. Another zinger: “And if you think you’re lowering yourself, well, here’s the floor, and there’s the door”. This is literally what the 30 year old woman should’ve said to the sisters in S&S before kicking them out of her house. Anna is also 30-ish btw. I'm so glad that someone is giving OLD HAGS a chance at love. It’s never too late. Unless you're 31. (I know it was a “different time” and that it was “normalized” and “life span” was shorter but idc + having fun + playing.)
 
Oh I should probably mention I am less than an eighth into Anna Karenina (it’s 750 pages :/) and I never got past a third of Sense & Sensibility so I have absolutely no business saying any of this right now and don’t you dare fact-check any of this please. 
