---
layout: post
title:  "Trainspotting (movie)"
date:   2024-07-24T14:25:52-05:00
author: Youthful Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---
Movie Review!!

I watched the 1990-something Scottish film Trainspotting and it was pretty sick. The movie was very orange and green and sent me down a fabulous tunnel of European electronica music on spotify. The highlight of the movie might have been Ewan McGregor’s little crop top outfit that he wears to a nightclub and then to sleep with a high school girl. The outfit consists of a yellow baby tee with either a lion or a woman laying on the beach, dirty jeans, a flannel tied elegantly around the waist, and all topped off with a buzz cut that I'm sure was the main inspiration for Tom Blythe's President Snow. All in all gorg. In fact, nearly everyone in the movie was gorg, somewhat undercutting the themes of gritty reality and desperation. Who would want to be sober when addiction looks so good. Jk no Trainspotting’s portrayal of addiction is violent and gross and devastating I really loved it. Unlike a lot of anti drug propaganda, this movie acknowledges that no matter the circumstances, drugs do actually feel really good. Like every time things get really bad specifically because of the drugs the characters do more drugs to escape the bad vibes of the consequences of their actions and it works really well. It just doesn't change their circumstances in the slightest, and the situations they find themselves in get more and more morose and nasty. Like at one point a baby puppet is climbing around on the ceiling while Ewan is screaming, crying, puking, etc. But this is good for him don’t worry. Anyway, it's a happy ending and the sardonic monologue Ewan gives at the beginning of the movie comes back with a renewed meaning and newfound sentiment. Very life affirming.I will not do heroin! Thank you Irvine Welsh. 

Oh did I mention?? Denimskirty newsletter veteran author Irvine Welsh wrote the novel this movie was based off of. Like Marabou Stork Nightmares Irvine Welsh. Like exploding dog––apartheid metaphor––evil stork Irvine Welsh!! I highly recommend watching Trainspotting after reading Marabou Stork Nightmares (or the Marabou Stork Nightmares newsletter) so that it feels like you know a secret while watching it. I even more highly recommend reading Irvine Welsh’s wikipedia page after Marabou Stork Nightmares but before watching Trainspotting so that you know two secrets. Did you know that Irvine Welsh is a smooth-shaven bald? I think they may have given Ewan McGregor a buzzcut in the movie to pay homage to Welsh’s gleaming scalp, but like not too obviously. Welsh probably didn’t want to look really full of himself, styling the main character entirely after himself. Throw half a centimeter of hair on the boy and Welsh maintains plausible deniability. All in all, I am so glad that Trainspotting is a movie and that Marabou Stork Nightmares is not. 
