---
layout: post
title:  "True Grit by Charles Portis"
date:   2024-03-27T14:25:52-05:00
author: Youthful Denim Skirt
categories: yr24
---

SORRY but I’m talking about my cowboy book again: True Grit - Charles Portis. And also all the cowboy style media I’ve been consuming lately. For those who weren’t at last week’s meeting >:(((, True Grit is a 1968 American novel about 14-year old Mattie Ross setting off on a quest through the Territory to bring justice to the scoundrel who killed her father. Mattie is opinionated and dry and so funny and likable. (as a reader. she is not funny or likable to the other characters lol). I don’t think I’ve read a single book with a likable main character since winter break freshman year. Insane!! It’s so fun to actually root for the protagonist instead of just waiting for their timely comeuppance and a lesson about how people are flawed and fate is cruel. Maybe u guys are flawed but not Mattie!! She has never done anything wrong ever tbh. 
The book is full of folksy aphorisms and dialogue like “‘Haw haw’”. I love “Haw haw”. I will be saying “Haw haw” from now on, I’ll prob even slip it into this week’s meeting. I don’t know why this folksiness is so pleasant to me. It’s not nostalgia exactly, since I have never experienced the wild west, and this representation of the wild west isn’t even real. I listened to this podcast called “The Wind” and one episode was about soundtracks for Westerns (cowboy movies), and the podcast person talked about how paradoxically Westerns represent our roots (like as Americans). And it’s weird for a couple of reasons: 1) westerns are highly dramatized and exaggerated. They’re made to be fun, not accurate, so it’s not even a good representation of our supposed roots in 1850s-1880s style expansionism and 2) america existed for a solid century before the time period we know to house the wild west, so why would this be our roots and not literally any other time in history?? 

What I think it is (and I came to this early one morning last year skimming the APUSH textbook for a reading quiz) is that this period, or maybe a little broader like 1820s-1880s, forms the beginnings of the American myth. The podcast talked a lot about how we mythologize our past, and I feel like the plot of 1820s-1880s America is so full of metaphor and so well structured for narrative. It feels like a lesson and an ideal and a cautionary tale. It feels like a story. So we write stories about it. Hey that so did not make sense but whatevs that is not the point of this newsletter!!

The point of this newsletter is that I love old-timey folk and country music. Jimmie Rodgers has a song called T.B Blues and it is truly in every sense just about tuberculosis. “I’ve got the Teeeeeeeee, Beeeeeeeee, bluuuuuuuuuuuhuuuhuus,” he sings. Do people sing about tuberculosis anymore?? No!!!! John Green gets this so hard. I also like Elizebeth Cotten. There’s nothing silly about her, she was just an incredible guitarist + her style of finger-picking is now named after her so that's kind of sick. Another fav is Abner Jay, who has these piercing odes to working class troubles, but they sound like they’re being performed to a crowd in a one-man musical by a man in a lumberjack costume. Sorry Abner I actually love you. Lastly is Connie Converse who is perhaps an outlier in this list because her whole thing is that she disappeared in 1974, never to be seen again. This queen produced one album’s worth of songs (very pretty and nature themed), wrote some famous memo about racism, and then fucked off forever. Her family eventually respected her wishes to leave and stopped looking for her. 

fav quotes from True Grit:

“I have left off crying, and giggling as well.”

“I would not put a thief in my mouth to steal my brains.”

“I have known some horses and a good many more pigs who I believe harbored evil intent in their hearts. I will go further and say all cats are wicked, though often useful. Who has not seen Satan in their sly faces? Some preachers will say, well, that is superstitious ‘claptrap.’ My answer is this: Preacher, go to your Bible and read Luke 8: 26-33”

“You must pay for everything in this world one way and another. There is nothing free except the Grace of God. You cannot earn that or deserve it.”

sorry to be so USAcore in this one, I’ve been listening to a lot of country music.
